'GRANDFATHER CLAUSES.' PROF. DU BOIS TELLS OF DISCRIMINATIONS FAVORING WHITES
New York Times, November 3, 1912, p. 16.
To the Editor of The New York Times:
In the article on "Negroes Disfranchised," in THE TIMES of Oct. 30, your special writer says:
The law prescribes the qualifications of all voters without regard to race, color, condition, or previous condition; but the condition is made so hard that the colored voters cannot meet the tests required of them and—technically at least—required of all men.
This is not a fair statement of the case. By the well-known "grandfather clause" ignorant white men have been given the life-long hereditary right to vote if their ancestors had such right before the colored men were enfranchised.
Further than that, qualified colored men able to meet every legal requirement are denied registration practically at will by local officials. The methods by which the disfranchisement is actually accomplished may be illustrated by the following cases: A colored graduate of Harvard, who offered himself for registration in Virginia, writes me:
On the proper day I made application to the Registrar of the town of Hampton for registration. The Registrar was a young white man of the poorer class, showing a low degree of intelligence—a salesman in a hardware store in town. He handed me a piece of paper and told me to make out my application. This I did in proper form. He read it carefully and then handed me a sheet of paper containing five questions. Those questions asked the manner of election, term of office, and duties of some of the State officials not generally heard of. I answered—all of the questions correctly with the exception of one and that was partially right. He looked at it for about two minutes, and then, shaking his head, said: "You can't register!" I asked why, and he replied: "You haven't answered these questions." I asked which were wrong. He answered impatiently: "I don't have to tell you. I said you can't register, and that settles it."
From Louisiana we learn:
It is tacitly understood that the negroes cannot vote in the country parishes of Louisiana. Mr. Terrell, of Louisiana, whose address is Straight University, New Orleans, is a graduate of the University of Michigan, and is carrying on an independent farming business on a farm, valued at $10,000, yet he cannot participate in any election.
From North Carolina a friend writes:
The amendment, as you know, was not adopted for the improvement of the electorate, but, rather, to keep the negro from voting—and the opposition among the dominant race and party is almost as great toward educated negroes in the matter of voting as toward any others—and these, being naturally sensitive and little inclined to court trouble, simply do not register. The white folks are in the saddle in this element of the electorate, and at that point their patriotism stops.
The result of the disfranchisement of intelligent property-holding negroes is shown by these figures from Louisiana:
White. Negro. 1900—Population ............... 728,612 650,804 1900—Males 21 years or over.. 176,865 147,345 Literate ................... 146,276 60,969 Illiterate .................. 30,185 86,743 1908—Registered voters...... 302,135 1,743
Yet the negroes of Louisiana have increased the value of their farms from nine and one-third to twelve and three-quarters millions assessed value in ten years, and despite the worst school system in America have reduced their illiteracy in the same time from 72 to 61 per cent.
Your special writer thinks that such a condition works no injury to the Nation. "The white folks are in the saddle," down South, just as they are 'up North,' and there they expect to stay, whatever the exigencies of partisan and sectional politics in other parts of this blessed Union." This sounds gay and snappy, but let us for a moment face some plain facts:
Minnesota and Alabama each sent nine Congressmen to Washington in 1908. The First Congressional District in each State votes as follows: Votes 1900. 1908. First Dist. Alabama........161,724 7,407 First Dist. Minnesota......202,151 35,077
How is it that 7,000 voters in Alabama have the same power as 35,000 in Minnesota?
It is because 22,234 voters in the First District of Alabama were black and disfranchised, in spite of the fact that 9,000 of them could read and write; of the remaining 18,000 white voters only 7,487 were interested enough to go to the polls because there is no political question in Alabama on which people vote except the "negro" question.
How is this for Democracy in this "blessed Union"? W. E. B. DU BOIS, Director of Publicity of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
New York, Nov. 2, 1912.